---
layout: post
title:  "Why I run?"
date:   2024-01-19 09:05:55 +0300
image:  run_wp.png
tags:   Sport
---

In the past, I used to play a lot of sports. As a little kid, I would play badminton and soccer with the neighborhood kids, and as I got a bit older, I joined my classmates at the gym. However, I never took up running because it seemed exhaustingly tedious. I'm the type of person who pays close attention to appearance; for instance, if I feel a bit overweight or notice some belly fat, I'll eat less and exercise more. So, on my first day at Zalo (February 2020), my boss – an avid runner – didn't have to try too hard to coax me onto this sweat-laden path.

I heard my boss and others say that running helps reduce stress, clear the mind, and boost creativity, but it didn't seem to apply to me initially. All I felt was tiredness and sore legs. But I didn't stop because I believed that running would help me slim down, allowing me to eat whatever I wanted. Another reason was that I wanted to emulate my boss; I admired him and wanted to be as competent as he was.

Two years after that first day, I was still maintaining the habit, but my approach wasn't effective. I would simply put on my shoes and run, with no proper training plan, no warm-up or cool-down, which led to quite a few injuries. Even though I managed to maintain a balanced physique and started to feel the mental relaxation from running, I didn't see much improvement in my performance over those two years.

Everything started to change when I moved to Ho Chi Minh City for work. There, I joined a running group with my colleagues and had Coach Hiếu help adjust my posture and organize specific workouts. I realized an unwritten rule in running: "To run fast, you must first learn to run slow." Thanks to this, I overcame my injuries and significantly improved my performance in just a few short months.

Now, running is still a precious opportunity for me. It has helped me expand my social circle; it keeps me physically fit and mentally resilient, braver in facing challenges. Running allows me to contribute more meaningfully to society through charity races. It enhances my appreciation of nature and humanity. Running makes me feel more 'alive' with each passing day.